# eva-assembly-ingestion
Automation for ingesting a new assembly for a species (taxonomy) in the EVA databases.

## Scripts

### Adding a target assembly
Primary job for ingesting a new assembly, including finding assemblies for the taxonomy that need to be remapped, doing
the remapping and clustering, and updating all related metadata and other databases.

Supports the following tasks:

* `load_tracker`: Retrieves source assemblies and number of studies and loads into the tracker.
  Will not load if any jobs exist for this taxonomy / target assembly pair.
* `remap_cluster`: Remaps all source assemblies in the tracker and clusters on the target assembly.
  Will only start jobs not marked as `complete`, and can resume them when possible.
* `update_dbs`: Update the necessary databases with the new assembly: supported assembly table, metadata, and contig alias.
  Will not do any updates if any incomplete jobs are present in the tracker.

Example usage:
```bash
# Run everything
python add_target_assembly.py --taxonomy 9031 --target_assembly GCA_016699485.1

# Run remapping and clustering only, resume and run on a specific instance
python add_target_assembly.py --taxonomy 9031 --target_assembly GCA_016699485.1 --tasks remap_cluster --instance 3 --resume
```

### Custom assembly generation
Executable to generate custom assemblies and assembly reports.
This is called in the main target assembly job and can be used for other remapping jobs as well.
```bash
# Standard run
python get_custom_assembly.py --assembly-accession GCA_016699485.1 --fasta-file /path/to/fasta --report-file /path/to/report

# Disable contig renaming
python get_custom_assembly.py --assembly-accession GCA_016699485.1 --fasta-file /path/to/fasta --report-file /path/to/report --no-rename
```

## Library

Various components of this code can be reused by other remapping processes.
This includes the custom assembly logic, methods for generating Spring properties files with typical values,
and parsers for Java log files generated by EVA pipelines.
